# Customer Segmentation in eCommerce to improve customer experience using Data Mining and Machine Learning. 
-
## Literature Review
-
Marketing is considered the key part in any business types and categories from B2B to P2P as every business owner wants to create a unique position in their customer’s minds as well as satisfy customer needs. For which businesses have multiple marketing techniques to get the highest customer retention score by studying customer behavior towards every aspect of the business. For example, your regular grocery store owner understanding your usual shopping habits and to improve the relationship with you as the customer that store owner analyses your patterns and will suggest you the products which might be of your interests and majority of those times that product indeed turns out to be useful. But, with Shopping online that same recommendations and recognition of shopping behavior lacks to get the similar results. That is when we need the data mining and machine learning models to segment the customers accurately which would create a unique experience for every shopper with perfectly curated catalogue according to their requirements and liking. Application of such strategies will enhance the current technologies and improve the targeted marketing; customer retention also reduces the ‘loss in marketing’ (without such segmentation the marketing budget is wasted on promoting products to irrelevant audience) and inventory management. 

To increase profits in marketing, communicating with the customers to identify the customer’s wishes is the best way.[] With the development of customer-oriented behavior in business, growing attention has been paid to customers and their needs as one of the vital factors to gain higher profits (Cheng and Chen, 2009).  To achieve the suggested results, along with the good performance of the platform, we need to identify the best approach towards customer and market segmentation. Market segmentation can be defined as dividing a market into distinct groups of customers, with different needs, characteristics, or behavior, who might require separate products or who may respond differently to various combinations of marketing efforts (Kotler and Armstrong, 1999). Market segmentation can be performed based on several bases such as demographic, benefit, usage-rate, needs-based, behavioral, psychographic, geographic. The segmentation can also be implemented by the information generated on the platform while using the same such as the purchase history, product searches, review/ ratings on products, wish list etc. as well as similarity in the same information among other users and suggestions based on other user’s purchases, or categorizing the customers based on the price of products previously bought. As segmenting the customers is majorly focused on creating suggestions/ recommendations there is also possibility of implementing reverse platform which will make sure certain products should less likely be recommended to the customers like, if the customer has bought a product from certain category previously like a mobile or computer then they are less likely to purchase the same product in short period of time, etc.


### Data for Customer Segmentation:
Customer or market segmentation to create successful model requires customer data from multiple sources. Magneto[] uses categorization on the data into internal and external data. 
